Rules of Texas Hold 'em

Every player is given 2 cards, which will be their hand. Only they can use these cards to form different sets
There are 10 kinds of sets, each made up of different cards. I will be ranking them form worst(10) to best(1) below

A player uses the highest ranking set they can form with their hand and the table's communal cards(explained later)
to use at the end to win. The best set wins the round. Play normally continues until one wishes to leave or has run out of 
money, however here every round is considered a game. There is no fake currency to gamble, this is just used for calculating
probability of obtaining different sets and winning hands

A card consits of a suit and value. 
Suits - These determine the group or "suit" a card is a part of
    1. Heart
    2. Spade
    3. Diamond
    4. Club

Values - These determine how good a card is. Higher is better with the exception of the ace (So 2 < 9 < Jack < King < Ace)
    1. Ace
    2. Two
    3. Three
    4. Four
    5. Five
    6. Six
    7. Seven
    8. Eight
    9. Nine
    10. Ten
    11. Jack
    12. Queen
    13. King

Ace is unique. It takes the place of a one card, however it's value is considered the highest of all cards. When forming 
different sets in can be used in plcae of a one or fourteen. That being said, a ace cannot be used to connect a king and 
two. The ace can serve as a one or fourteen, but cannot link two and thirteen by being both one and fourteen. It must be 
one of the values, not both.

There is only one card with every suit value pair, for a total of 52 cards (4 * 13 = 52)

When I say cards the player has available, it means the two cards in their hand and whatever cards are on the table

Sets
10. High Card - The highest card the player has available
9. Pair - When the player has two of the same cards avialable (8 hearts, 8 clubs)
8. Two Pair - When a player can form two pairs with the cards avialable (10 diamonds, 10 clubs, Jack clubs, Jack hearts)
7. Three of a Kind - When a player has three cards of the same value available (7 hearts, 7 clubs, 7 spades)
6. Straight - When the player has 5 cards available which form a striaght path (Ace->Two->Three->Four->Five 
    or Ten->Jack->Queen->King->Ace)
5. Flush - When the player has 5 cards available all of the same suit (2 hearts, 3 hearts, 7 hearts, Queen hearts,
    Ace hearts)
4. Full House - When the player has both a pair and a three of a kind (Ace hearts, Ace spade, 6 hearts, 6 diamonds, 
    6 spades)
3. Four of a Kind - When the player has all four cards of a given value available (6 hearts, 6 spades, 6 diamonds, 6 clubs)
2. Straight Flush - When a player has five cards which follow the rules of both a striaght and flush
1. Royal Flush - When the player has the 5 highest ranked cards(10 - Ace) and it follows the striaght flush rules

In the event where the best set is shared by both players (Both of two pairs) the winner is decided by who has the highest
value card in their set. So if one player has a pair of 8s and one has a pair of 4s, the one who has a pair of 8s wins.
If one player has a straight from 6-10 and one has a straight from 8-Queen the 8-Queen player wins

How to form sets
Sets are formed through the two cards the player has access to and the cards placed on the table
The turn order goes as follows
1. Pre-Flop - Players get their hands, then bet
2. Flop - One card is burnt (or removed from play without knowing the value) and three are placed on the table, then bet
3. Turn - One card is burnt and one is placed on the table, then bet
4. River - One card is burnt and one is placed on the table, then bet
5. Showdown - Players reveal their hands and the winner is determined 

During each round (except the showdown) a player is given access to more cards to form a sets. At no point can a player change
their hand or the cards on the table. They must form these sets with what they are given

Example Round (excluding betting)
Player 1 - John
Player 2 - Sara

Pre-Flop 
    John gets the 4 of diamonds and 4 of spades, forming a pair
    Sara gets the 9 of spades and Jack of spades, giving her high card of Jack

Flop
    A card is burnt, and the three revealed cards are a 4 of clubs, ten of spades, ace of diamond
    John now has three of a kind, as he has three fours
    Sara now has high card of Ace

Turn
    A card is burnt, and the revelead card is a 8 of spades
    John still only has his three of a kind
    Sara only has her high card of ace, but with a 8 of spades, 9 of spades, 10 of spades and Jack of spades avialable she 
    almost has a straight flush

River
    A card is burnt, and the revelead card is a 4 of hearts
    John now has four of a kind, with all four of the fours available to him
    Sara did not get her straight flush, leaving her with a Ace high

Showdown
    Both players reveal their cards
    John wins, as four of a kind ranks higher then a Ace high

In the event where both players have equal value sets as their highest card (such as four aces being dealt on the table)
the players use their hands highest card to find the winner. If the last remaining card on the table either the highest card
or tied with the highest card a player has, the round is a tie and the pot (betting pool) is split evenly 

Generally in the event when two sets are equal, there will be a inequality eventually
If  both players have full houses, and both use three eights for the three of a kind portion, then whoever has the higher
pair portion wins
If both player have flushes, then whoever can make the highest value group of five cards wins the hand

If you still do not understand you can read more here https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Texas_hold_%27em#Rules